Hosted Launch: CLI Quickstart (#2280)
astronomer/docs: astro/cli/get-started-cli.md

---
sidebar_label: 'Get started with the CLI'
title: 'Get started with Airflow using the Astro CLI'

> id: get-started-cli

Reviewer: ```suggestion
id: get-started-cli
description: Create an Airflow project and run it locally on your computer in just a few minutes. 
```

```sh
astro dev init
```

This command generates the following files in the directory:

```
.
├── .env # Local environment variables
├── dags # Where your DAGs go
│   ├── example-dag-basic.py # Example DAG that showcases a simple ETL data pipeline
│   └── example-dag-advanced.py # Example DAG that showcases more advanced Airflow features, such as the TaskFlow API
├── Dockerfile # For the Astro Runtime Docker image, environment variables, and overrides
├── include # For any other files you'd like to include
├── plugins # For any custom or community Airflow plugins
│   └── example-plugin.py
├── tests # For any DAG unit test files to be run with pytest
│   └── test_dag_integrity.py # Test that checks for basic errors in your DAGs
├── airflow_settings.yaml # For your Airflow connections, variables and pools (local only)
├── packages.txt # For OS-level packages
└── requirements.txt # For Python packages
```

## Step 2: Run Airflow locally

> Building your project locally allows you to test your DAGs and confirm that your example Astro project builds correctly before you run it remotely in Astro. While this step is not required for deploying and running your code on Astro, Astronomer recommends always using the Astro CLI to test locally before deploying.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running your project locally allows you to test your DAGs before you deploy them to a production environment. While this step is not required for deploying and running your code on Astro, Astronomer recommends always using the Astro CLI to test locally before deploying.
```

2. After your project builds successfully, open the Airflow UI in your web browser at `https://localhost:8080/`.

3. Find your DAGs in the`dags` directory in the Airflow UI. 

    In this directory, you can find several example DAGs including `example-dag-basic` DAG, which was generated with your Astro project. To provide a basic demonstration of an ETL pipeline, this DAG creates an example JSON string, calculates a value based on the string, and prints the results of the calculation to the Airflow logs.

    ![Example DAG in the Airflow UI](/img/docs/sample-dag.png)

:::info

The Astro CLI uses port `8080` for the Airflow webserver and port `5432` for the Airflow metadata database by default. If these ports are already in use on your local computer, an error message might appear. To resolve this error message, see [Test and troubleshoot locally](test-and-troubleshoot-locally.md#ports-are-not-available).

:::

## Step 3: Develop locally with the CLI

> The `astro dev` command options include a number of other useful actions that you can use while developing locally. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `astro dev` command options include a number of other useful subcommands that you can use while developing locally. 
```

---
sidebar_label: 'Get started with the CLI'
title: 'Get started with Airflow using the Astro CLI'
id: get-started-cli
---

> After you install the Astro CLI and Docker Desktop, you can use the following CLI commands to quickly build and run your Airflow projects locally. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the Astro CLI's main features is its ability to run Airflow on your local computer. After you install the Astro CLI and Docker Desktop, follow these steps to quickly build a project and run Airflow locally. 
```

## Prerequisites

- The [Astro CLI](install-cli.md)
- [Docker Desktop](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) (v18.09 or higher).

> ## Step 1: Create an Astro project with `astro dev init`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 1: Create an Astro project
```

```sh
astro dev init
```

This command generates the following files in the directory:

```
.
├── .env # Local environment variables
├── dags # Where your DAGs go
│   ├── example-dag-basic.py # Example DAG that showcases a simple ETL data pipeline
│   └── example-dag-advanced.py # Example DAG that showcases more advanced Airflow features, such as the TaskFlow API
├── Dockerfile # For the Astro Runtime Docker image, environment variables, and overrides
├── include # For any other files you'd like to include
├── plugins # For any custom or community Airflow plugins
│   └── example-plugin.py
├── tests # For any DAG unit test files to be run with pytest
│   └── test_dag_integrity.py # Test that checks for basic errors in your DAGs
├── airflow_settings.yaml # For your Airflow connections, variables and pools (local only)
├── packages.txt # For OS-level packages
└── requirements.txt # For Python packages
```

> ## Step 2: Run Airflow locally using `astro dev start`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 2: Run Airflow locally
```

2. After your project builds successfully, open the Airflow UI in your web browser at `https://localhost:8080/`.

3. Find your DAGs in the`dags` directory in the Airflow UI. 

    In this directory, you can find several example DAGs including `example-dag-basic` DAG, which was generated with your Astro project. To provide a basic demonstration of an ETL pipeline, this DAG creates an example JSON string, calculates a value based on the string, and prints the results of the calculation to the Airflow logs.

    ![Example DAG in the Airflow UI](/img/docs/sample-dag.png)

:::info

The Astro CLI uses port `8080` for the Airflow webserver and port `5432` for the Airflow metadata database by default. If these ports are already in use on your local computer, an error message might appear. To resolve this error message, see [Test and troubleshoot locally](test-and-troubleshoot-locally.md#ports-are-not-available).

:::

> ## Step 3: Developing locally with the CLI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 3: Develop locally with the CLI
```

```sh
astro dev stop
```

Unlike `astro dev kill`, this command does not prune mounted volumes and delete data associated with your local Postgres database. If you run this command, Airflow connections and task history will be preserved.

This command can be used regularly with `astro dev start` and `astro dev restart` during local development.

### `astro dev kill`

When you want to force-stop all four Docker containers for your local Airflow environment, use the following command. 

```sh
astro dev kill
```

`astro dev kill` also deletes all data associated with your local `Postgres` database which includes Airflow connections, logs, and task history.

## Next Steps

After you have finished Getting Started with the CLI, you can configure your CLI to locally debug your Airflow environment, authenticate to cloud services to test your DAGs with data stored on the cloud, or you can learn more about developing DAGs with Astro.

- [Configure the CLI](configure-cli.md)
- [Authenticate to cloud services](authenticate-to-clouds.md)
- [Build and run a project locally](develop-project.md#build-and-run-a-project-locally)

> 
> 
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
